the US has vetoed an Arab back
resolution in the UN Security Council
demanding a ceasefire in the war between
Israel and Hamas Hamas is labeled a
terrorist organization in many countries
the US says it will instead propose its
own resolution it's calling for a
temporary ceasefire linked to the
release of Israeli hostages the Algeria
sponsored plan representing several Arab
Nations calls for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire as well as the
release of all
hostages Council okay let's get more on
this from DW's Washington bureau chief
inis Paul inis um tell us why the US
vetoed this proposal put forward by
Algeria Washington said that the
Algerian proposed resolution would
jeopardize talks to end the war arguing
uh that it was not the right time to
call for an immediate ceasefire while
while NE negotiations between Hamas uh
and Israel were continuing Ana I think
it's worth to mention here that 13
countries on the 15 member body backed
algeria's resolution but the UK
abstained and the US vetoed it okay so
help us understand the main differences
then between the Algerian proposal which
was vetoed and Washington's own
proposal right so the difference lies uh
in the requirements that need uh to be
uh fulfilled the draft resolution
proposed by the US calls for a temporary
ceasefire as soon as
practicable and on the condition that
all hostages are released um however it
is unclear if or when the security
Council will vote on the form of words
proposed uh by Washington okay and and
this is the first time that the US has
used this word ceasefire isn't it what
does this say
about its current relations with
Israel right so this really marks uh uh
a moment uh the Biden Administration has
not only come under immense
International pressure uh to use its
leverage to reign in Israel's
devastating operations uh but Biden uh
is also facing intense pressure from
members of his own party to speak more
forcefully uh on the situation in Gaza
and of course for uh in this election
year in this election year which is just
uh beginning uh he's also risking Biden
is also risking to lose important voter
bodies uh like young voters or Arab
Americans because of his support uh for
Israel inis thanks so much for that
update that's DW's Washington bureau
chief inis
Paul now in Israel authorities are
working hard to help residents return to
areas that were left empty after the
trauma of the terror attacks carried out
by Hamas on October the 7th last year
DW's special correspondent amyan ISF
visited the city of stot which is near
the border with the Gaza Strip a
kindergarten here has now reopened as
some families return to the
city the voices of children in a
classroom it's a sound that had left the
city for 4
months
around 90% of sto's population fled in
the days following the Hamas terror
attack even children this young had
heard Hamas Rockets fall before the
latest War but October 7th was a new
kind of Terror for the few families that
have decided to return it's an important
day it's a kind of routine we're
starting to go back to a daily schedule
back to sanity after this catastrophe
that we experienced on that s day and
all those months we spend away from
here I call it Exile in Judaism it's
called Exile when you're away from your
natural habitat and the kids as you can
see are having lots of fun being around
their classmates again in their natural
habitat it's our home after
[Music]
all the city is clearing the debris of a
battle this empty lot was the site of a
police station stormed and then occupied
by Hamas militants a mural marks the
standoff that ensued when Israeli troops
destroyed the building with the
attackers
inside many of the scars that were left
by the attack have been patched
over but still 2/3 of the city's 30,000
residents haven't come
back st's Deputy Mayor expects that it
will take another month at least before
even half of the residents return you
can come if you don't have we are not
encouraged we are enabling and this it's
a big difference we not call people come
here to Theo it's good for you because
it's very personal someone that is good
for him he will come someone that his
child is very afraid and have a
post-traumatic Disorder so stay out of
the city for a long time but we are
enabling everyone to come here to H
start again the military has assured him
the city is secure and Hamas hasn't
launched rockets in this direction in 2
weeks but many say they won't feel safe
unless Hamas is
destroyed little by little stot is
recovering from the horror of October
7th and returning to some kind of daily
life the explosions that you hear on a
regular basis in this city keep
everybody on edge but they know that for
now at least it's the sound of Israeli
shells hitting Gaza which is just over a
kilometer away there it's an active war
zone and a return to routine is still
Unthinkable and I'm joined Now by DW's
amyan ISF in Jerusalem who filed that
report for us Ian um you said in your
report two-thirds of the city's
residents still haven't come back can
you describe to us how life has changed
in stot since uh the October the 7th
attacks what do people there told
you well it's completely different I
mean for one thing it feels like a ghost
town a lot of the shops are still
boarded up uh people expect the life to
return but it's happening little by
little for a lot of people they wanted
to move back just to get back to their
daily routine um they had to go back to
work they wanted to get their kids back
to school for others though there's more
of a religious aspect to it some people
we talk to cited Zionism uh the belief
that they need to stand their ground no
matter what happens to maintain their
claim to the land no matter what happens
uh in the face of any kind of tragedy
and that was their motivating factor for
moving back before they felt completely
safe now the city has been traumatized
by what happened on October 7th it's uh
for a long time been the target of
Rocket attacks but nobody had seen
anything like what happened uh on
October 7th when Hamas militants ran
through the streets indiscriminately
killing civilians about at least 20
civilians were killed on that day so
there is now a sense of Victory after
IDF the IDF secured the area and then
started its campaign on Gaza where most
of the people in Northern Gaza were
forced South um and the city there was
uh completely bombed it might be jarring
to an outsider but there is a sense of
Pride that the city is of s stot is
opening back up that people are getting
on with their lives as much as they can
even as their just a few kilometers and
some places just a kilometer away from
an active war zone I mean you can grab a
pair of binoculars go up on a hill and
look into uh what is a war zone you can
see uh the rubble left behind by the
bombing campaign in Northern Gaza I mean
of course you reported that many of
aot's residents haven't come back so
what is stopping them from moving back
and where are they right
now well for many it's still trauma uh
young kids kids uh who are not yet ready
to go back there don't forget a lot of
the the stot is a city but it's a small
City and a lot of people who live there
saw with their own eyes what happened on
October 7th and are just not yet ready
to confront them those memories yet for
other people they don't want to go back
to a ghost town yet they want to see uh
wait and see uh what happens with the
city and uh businesses opening back up
they want to go back to a lively City
and and not be the Pioneers who open
that City back up another issue is that
the evacuees are getting subsidies from
the government they're allowed to live
in hotels outside of the city and for a
lot of people this just makes a lot more
sense than moving back to stot uh at the
at the moment so there's a lot of
reasons why people um are staying away
we went to a hotel in Jerusalem where
there was lots of families uh basically
holed up uh waiting for the right time
to move back um but they told us all
that they will eventually move back to
their Hometown I mean we'll have to
leave it there but thanks so much for
that that's DW's am and ISF reporting
from
Jerusalem